## Pre IA Paper

#### My client for this project was my mother. I chose her as my client because since I know her well, I am aware of the tasks she struggles with. In order to choose the problem I was going to provide her with a solution for, I interviewed her where I asked her about her daily routine and together we brainstormed a list of problems I had the ability to solve. The problem I chose to focus on was creating menus. Our family frequently has dinner parties and my mother despises having to create a menu. As my project, I decided to code a solution for her that would generate a menu for her with simply one click. I wanted the output to be in order, starting from the appetizer and ending with dessert. I also wanted there to be one non-vegetarian option, one vegetarian option, and one side dish.

#### Before I could start to code my solution I had to create a Gantt chart to help me organize the time I had to complete the project. I gave myself three days to write the pseudocode and create a flowchart outlining the general flow of the solution. Then I had three days to code the first version of the solution and debug the code. After that, I met up with my mother again and showed her what I had created so far. She gave me her suggestions and then I worked on fixing the solution for the next four days.

#### To create my Gantt chart I used the design website Canva and for the flowchart I used an online software called draw.io. I struggled with using Canva because I had to drastically change the template it had provided me with for this project since this project stretch over two weeks and the project in the template only had five days, Draw.io was considerably easier to use because I had worked with it before and was familiar with it. I chose to write my pseudocode on a google document and simply take a screenshot of it. After I created my Gantt chart, flowchart and wrote my pseudocode, I began to program the solution.

#### Creating this solution simply required a clear plan and luckily, I had one. Planning my code took me a while because I was still new to the idea of matrices. I mainly struggled with being able to visualize what my code was doing to my array. To help make it clearer, I resorted to drawing out the matrix on a piece of paper and then going through what my code said. This was extremely helpful and it expedited the planning process tremendously. The output of the solution I coded was a menu consisting of five dishes. I later showed it to my mother to hear feedback and use it to improve the code. She told me that I needed to add more items to the menu because the usual menu in parties consisted of at least eight dishes. I thought this would be an easy fix and I simply repeated a few lines of code in my function. Though this did end up increasing the number of outputs, it also repeated a few of the dishes. This was because my function was randomly choosing two dishes from the same array and often these dishes turned out to be the same. To combat this problem I decided to create a second matrix in addition to the preexisting one. The first matrix would contain the first half of the menu and the second array would contain the second half. To go along with the second matrix I also had to create a second function. This would allow me to input even more food options into both functions and ensure that none the dishes would repeat in the output. In order to add both parts of the menu, I had to create a third function. As I was improving my program, I also realized that I had incorporated two nested loops my function did not really need. The tool that helped me pick up on this was python visualize. It showed me that the nested loops were simply repeating a process that I did not need to be repeated. This realization allowed me to clear up my code and make it easier to understand.
